When you arrive at a hotel, you must check-in at the reception or front desk.

The check-in process can take a while since the receptionist has to find your

reservation, request payment for the room, and then inform you about the

hotel's policies and procedures. You are also given a key to your room at this

time.

Hotels often distinguish themselves by the services they offer. Fancy hotels

often have a porter to help you with a variety of tasks. They can help you get a

taxi, make reservations at restaurants or plays for you, and give you advice

about the city.

In smaller and cheaper hotels, the job of porter is done by the receptionist and

a doorman, who opens the hotel doors and car doors for you.

These are nice services, especially after you've been traveling, but they're not

free. It is common courtesy to tip the porter and bellboys each time they help

you.

In your room, there may be a single or double bed, depending on how many

people are staying there. There may even be two single beds, or twin beds.

Also in the room are a desk, a dresser to store your clothes in, a nightstand

with a lamp beside the bed, a television with cable/satellite TV, heating and air

conditioning.

If you're lucky, there may even be a mini-bar in your room. This is a small

refrigerator that has tiny bottles of alcohol, as well as snacks. But beware:

these are not free. In fact, they typically cost two to three times as much as

they do in a grocery store. But many people pay the exuberant price for the

convenience of not having to leave the hotel.

Another convenience that hotels offer is room service. To order room service,

you call down to the reception and ask for a food item listed on the hotel's

menu. The food is then brought to your room for you to enjoy. Remember, this

is another service that deserves a tip.

Many hotels also have restaurants attached where breakfast is served in the

morning. A hotel breakfast can range from a Continental buffet, which consists

of you helping yourself to food that has been laid out for you and other hotel

guests. The Continental breakfast is not very elaborate and is often included in

the price of the room. However, you can also order prepared food from the

restaurant's menu.

At the proper check-out time, which is often early, you must vacate the room

so that the cleaning staff, can clean the rooms and make the beds. If you don't

leave on time, charges may apply and you will have to pay extra money.

Fortunately, you can ask for a wake-up call from the front desk so you won't

sleep through check-out

To get to your next destination, you can take an airport shuttle, which will take

you directly to the airport. If a hotel doesn't have its own shuttle, it can usually

arrange for one to pick you up at the hotel.

"Making Reservations

Reception: Good morning. The Big Grand Hotel. How may I help you?

Guest: Hi, good morning. I'd like to make a reservation for the first weekend in

September. Do you have any vacancies?

Reception: Yes sir, we have several rooms available for that particular

weekend. And what is the exact date of your arrival?

Guest: The 10th.

Reception: How long will you be staying?

Guest: I'll be staying for three nights.

Reception: How many people is the reservation for?

Guest: There will be two of us.

Reception: And would you like a room with twin beds or a double bed?

Guest: A double bed, please.

Reception: Great. And would you prefer to have a room with a view of the

lake?

Guest: If that type of room is available, I would love to have a lake view.

What's the rate for the room?

Reception: Your room is six hundred and fifty dollars per night. Now what

name will the reservation be listed under?

Guest: Simon Moore.

Reception: Could you spell your last name for me, please?

Guest: Sure M-O-O-R-E

Reception: And is there a phone number where you can be contacted?

Guest: Yes, my mobile phone number is 123 456 7890.

Reception: Great. Now I'll need your credit card information to reserve the

room for you. What type of card do you have?

Guest: MasterCard. The number is 987654321.

Reception: And what is the name of the cardholder?

Guest: Simon T Moore.

Reception: Alright, Mr. Moore, your reservation has been made for the tenth

of September for a room with a double bed and view of the lake. Check-in is

after 2 pm. If you have any other questions, please do not hesitate to call us.

Guest: Great, thank you so much.

Reception: My pleasure. We'll see you in September, Mr. Moore."

"Checking-In

Reception: Good afternoon. Welcome to The Big Grand Hotel. How may I

help you?

Guest: I have a reservation for today. It's under the name of Moore.

Reception: Can you please spell that for me, sir?

Guest: Sure. M-O-O-R-E.

Reception: Yes, Mr. Moore, we've reserved a double room for you with a view

of the lake for three nights. Is that correct?

Guest: Yes, it is.

Reception: Excellent. We already have your credit card information on file. If

you'll just sign the receipt along the bottom, please.

Guest: Whoa! Six hundred and fifty dollars a night!

Reception: Yes, sir. We are a five star hotel after all.

Guest: Well, fine. I'm here on business anyway, so at least I'm staying on the

company's dime. What's included in this cost anyway?

Reception: A full Continental buffet every morning, free airport shuttle service,

and use of the hotel's safe are all included.

Guest: So what's not included in the price?

Reception: Well, you will find a mini-bar in your room. Use of it will be

charged to your account. Also, the hotel provides room service, at an

additional charge of course.

Guest: Hmm. Ok, so what room am I in?

Reception: Room 721 sir. Here is your key. To get to your room, take the

elevator on the right up to the seventh floor. Turn right once you exit the

elevator and your room will be on the left hand side. A bellboy will bring your

bags up shortly.

Guest: Great. Thanks.

Reception: Should you have any questions or requests, please dial 'O' from

your room. Also, there is internet available in the room 24 hours a day.

Guest: Ok, and what time is check-out?

Reception: Before midday, sir.

Guest: Ok, thanks.

Reception: My pleasure, sir. Have a wonderful stay at The Big Grand Hotel."

"Check-out / Getting to the airport

Reception: Did you enjoy your stay with us?

Guest: Yes, very much so. However, I now need to get to the airport. I have a

flight that leaves in about two and a half hours, so what is the quickest way to

get there?

Reception: We do have a free airport shuttle service.

Guest: That sounds great, but will it get me to the airport on time?

Reception: Yes, it should. The next shuttle leaves in 10 minutes, and it takes

approximately 15 minutes to get to the airport.

Guest: Fantastic. I'll just wait in the lounge area. Will you please let me know

when it will be leaving?

Reception: Of course, sir. Oh, before you go would you be able to settle the

mini-bar bill?

Guest: Oh yes certainly. How much will that be?

Reception: Let's see. The bill comes to 37.50. How would you like to pay for

that?

Guest: I'll pay with my Visa thanks, but I'll need a receipt so I can charge it to

my company.

Reception: Absolutely. Here we are sir. If you like you can leave your bags

with the porter and he can load them onto the shuttle for you when it arrives.

Guest: That would be great thank you.

Hotel: Would you like to sign the hotel guestbook too while you wait?

Guest: Sure, I had a really good stay here and I'll recommend you to other

people too.

Hotel: That's good to hear. Thank you again for staying at The Big Grand

Hotel."
